ideal quantum computer can break the
encryption standards we use today by
finding prime factors of a large integer
in just minutes instead of the thousands
of years it would take for a classical
computer to do but before you start to
panic while we have real Quantum
Hardware today it's not quite powerful
enough to do that just yet however
Technologies are advancing faster than
ever the cell phones we have today are
more powerful for than the M that we use
to send people to L moon and the
researchers believe that we will soon
entering an era of quantum Advantage
where quantum computers will be used to
accelerate classical computers just like
gpus in this video I'm going to talk
about five foundational topics in
quantum computer
superposition
Gates measurement interference and
entanglement
but before we dive into that let's first
talk about
bits classical computers use bits which
are like switches that can be a zero or
a one this way of uh computation has
served as well so well in fact that
almost all modern computers work this
way however this approach doesn't solve
all the problems that we have today
problems that can blow up exponentially
and will take class classical computers
decades or more to solve we already talk
about the algorithm we use for
encryption other types of difficult
problems include
optimization chemistry
simulation and machine
learning now let's talk about our first
topic superp
position coron computer um does not use
the simple zero and one bits instead it
uses Q bits
AC Cupids can be a
zero a
one or any linear combination of the
two this spectrum of states is what we
called a superp
position our next next topic is about
Gates similar to classical computers
we use we we string together cubits
using a construct Cates that can alter
the states of cubits in the
circuits for
example we can uh have a cubid that's at
the state of
zero then we can use leamar gate or H
gate for shorts to put it in a superp
position between zero and one
and of course you can have multiple
cubits with multiple gates in a
circuit for the circuit to be useful at
some point you need to read about its
outputs which brings us to our next
topic
measurement when a cubit is measured it
loses its superp position and collapse
into just a simple zero or one that
means an arrow pointing this way does
not measure a
0.5 instead it has 50% chance of
measuring a zero and 50% chance of
measuring a
one it is this in between state that
sometimes people say that a cubit can be
a zero and a one at the same time it
also means that just a small number of
cubits represent a large amount of
information so our um for our next topic
interference We Begin by addressing a
common problem common
question why is that quantum computers
can outperform classical
ones so if you remember the a Quantum
state is a linear combination of let
zero state
in one
state so an operation appli to this can
be seemed as applying to the zero State
and the one state doing two calculations
at once it is this parallel computation
that gives Quantum its unique
Advantage however as you may recall when
a when a cubit is measured it loses its
super position and collapses into zero
or one that means we can only get a
single answer instead of all of the
answers from this parallel
computation and to make sure the single
answer we get is the correct one Quantum
Gates need to be arranged in a way so
that's it would um implify the correct
answer and cancel all the incorrect ones
a process code interference
now this leads us to our last topic
entanglement when cubits are entangled
their states become strongly
correlated that is uh changing the
states of just one cubid will change the
state of another for example we can
intangle two cubits so that their states
have uh 50% chance of measuring a z0 and
50% chance of measuring a one one but
never a01 or a one
Zer in this case if we just if we change
just the the state of one the other one
would also
change so with the power combined power
of
superposition
interference and
entanglement Quant computer can solve
things that's classical computer simply
cannot do today it can lead to better
drug better drug Discovery or um inhance
the stock portfolio or even artificial
intelligence now we just need to wait
for the quantum Hardware to catch
up thanks for watching if you have any
questions please leave them in the
comments below also please remember to
like this video And subscribe to our
channel so we can continue to bring you
content that matters to you